Railgun-kb-to-dev-docs-migration (#1514)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/railgun/src/content/user-guide/set-up/configuration-activation.md

---
order: 6
pcx-content-type: tutorial
---

# Configuration and activation

Railgun is configured in `/etc/railgun/railgun.conf` (GNU/Linux). The most important directives are `wan.port`, which specifies the port Railgun listens on, `memcached.servers`, a space separated list of `host:port` memcached instances for Railgun to utilize. It is also possible to specify the full path to a single socket file for memcached. Using a socket file is recommended for best performance if your memcached does not require network communication. Make sure at least one memcached instance is defined. Full details on the available options [can be found in the Railgul Execution docs](/user-guide/railgun-execution).

> If you will be using Railgun in combination with a website hosted behind the same NAT scheme, then you will also need to configure a static IP mapping. In other words, if your website and Railgun node are running behind the same router or firewall, there are extra configuration steps necessary to properly route requests. More details in the [Potential problems and common issues](/user-guide/set-up/potential-problems) section. Contact support for assistance, or you can use the examples in `/etc/railgun/railgun-nat.conf` to define one yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you will be using Railgun in combination with a website hosted behind the same NAT scheme, then you will also need to configure static IP mapping. In other words, if your website and Railgun node are running behind the same router or firewall, there are extra configuration steps necessary to properly route requests. More details in the [Potential problems and common issues](/user-guide/set-up/potential-problems) section. Contact support for assistance, or you can use the examples in `/etc/railgun/railgun-nat.conf` to define one yourself.
```

> Railgun requires an activation step in order to use. To activate, you will need to update the configuration file with the external IP address or a hostname which resolves to the external IP of your Railgun instance for `activation.public_ip` and your activation token for `activation.token`. You can determine the external IP address of a server with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Railgun requires an activation step before usage. To activate, you will need to update the configuration file with the external IP address or a hostname which resolves to the external IP of your Railgun instance for `activation.public_ip` and your activation token for `activation.token`. You can determine the external IP address of a server with the following command:
```

```sh
$ curl icanhazip.com
```

> By default, Railgun will listen on all interfaces, although it is good practice to specify the interface you would like Railgun to use. You can do that by setting the wan.ip option to the IP address of the interface you would like Railgun to listen on. **This is especially important if you have a local link IPv6 address, as Railgun will prefer that to an IPv4 address and may not work as a result.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Railgun will listen on all interfaces. It is best practice to specify the interface you would like Railgun to use. You can do that by setting the wan.ip option to the IP address of the interface you would like Railgun to listen on. **This is especially important if you have a local link IPv6 address, as Railgun will prefer that to an IPv4 address and may not work as a result.**
```

> Business and Enterprise users can find the Railgun activation token listed on the [Account Settings page](https://www.cloudflare.com/a/account/my-account). Details on this page can be found in the Administration documentation. Optimized Partners must use the [init](/user-guide/optimized-partner-api/manage-railguns#get-init) API method to acquire an activation token (`rtkn`). Business and Enterprise users should add a Railgun on the listing page, if you haven’t already. It can be named anything you like. After adding a Railgun, the token will be listed on the page and you can toggle the Railgun to ‘On.’ The token is a 32 character hash of numbers and letters. Copy this hash into the `activation.token` option in your Railgun configuration file. If your public IP and activation token are properly configured, the first time you start Railgun it will register and download a newly generated SSL certificate to encrypt traffic. To make sure that activation works properly, check your logs for a successful activation response when starting Railgun:

Reviewer: Is it normal practice for Railgun docs to say "add a Railgun" or should it be "add Railgun"? Is it like Workers where "Workers" (so Railgun) is the technology but "a Worker" (a Railgun) is its own individual piece of code?

Article-noun relationship is a bit divided on this on this doc so I'm curious.

Author: That's an excellent question and the docs take turns between saying "Railgun" as in _the product_ and "add a Railgun" as _an instance_ (or something like it) of that product

Reviewer: I think that they mean "a Railgun server" but for my own peace of mine I think I would talk with a PM just to be clear on wording for future projects. A Worker really means "Workers instance" but we don't use that in the documentation. However, I saw on the dashboard that Railgun does say "Railgun Server" so... not sure what that team prefers.

Reviewer: I may be totally wrong here, in which case, ignore me haha.

```sh
$  tail -f /var/log/messages
Oct 27 22:29:41 www rg-listener: [Activation] Activation POST completed.
Oct 27 22:29:41 www rg-listener: [Activation] Assigned Railgun ID: 1
Oct 27 22:29:41 www rg-listener: [Activation] Acquired cert from server
```

If there is a certificate error in the system log or during startup, ensure that the necessary certificate bundle is installed as described in [Preparing the Environment](/user-guide/installation#preparing-the-environment) above so that Railgun may connect securely back to Cloudflare’s activation servers.

As an example, we are going to use domain port2408.net. The newly generated certificate is signed against the port2408.net domain and our system will automatically set your new port2408.net subdomain to resolve to the IP specified by `activation.public_ip`. You can use this hostname to test Railgun without enabling the service for all users. More details are in the [Testing Railgun](/user-guide/installation#testing-railgun) section below.

## Starting the service

> You should start the service in the manner that your operating system recommends. This is likely either by using the init script directly, or by invoking the service command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should start the service in the manner that your operating system recommends. This is likely either by using the `init` script directly, or by invoking the service command:
```

Reviewer: This may not be necessary if  `init` it isn't a command, delete this comment if that's true.

```sh
(GNU/Linux)
$ /etc/init.d/railgun start
Starting railgun:                                          [  OK  ]

$ service railgun start
Starting railgun:                                          [  OK  ]
```

After running the init script, there should be an `rg-listener` process listening on the configured port (2408 by default). You can use netstat to make sure:

```sh
(GNU/Linux)
$ netstat -plnt | grep 2408
tcp        0      0 :::2408                     :::*                        LISTEN      2981/rg-listener
```

> Provided that your port is open to Cloudflare traffic, it’s time for testing. If you don’t see the process running, then there may be an issue with activation or your configuration. The Railgun panic log, which is written to `/var/log/railgun/panic.log` by default, may contain more information. You can also attempt to start Railgun without the init script to see if any errors are present at start:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provided that your port is open to Cloudflare traffic, it’s time for testing. If you don’t see the process running, then there may be an issue with activation or your configuration. The Railgun panic log, which is written to `/var/log/railgun/panic.log` by default, may contain more information. You can also attempt to start Railgun without the `init` script to see if any errors are present at start:
```

Same here.

```sh
(GNU/Linux)
$ sudo -u railgun /usr/bin/rg-listener -config=/etc/railgun/railgun.conf
```
## Testing Railgun

> Once you have configured Railgun, you can test its operation using the **Test** button under the Speed section of your Cloudflare account. This will indicate whether a request to your web server uses Railgun.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have configured Railgun, you can test its operation using the **Test** button on the Cloudflare dashboard found in **Speed** > **Optimization** > scroll down to Railgun > **Test**. This will indicate whether a request to your web server uses Railgun.
```

Reviewer: Would suggest adding a specific pathway of instructions of where to go so first-time users can have a step-by-step and not get lost.

Author: I have no idea what the path might be to be honest. Do you have Railgun in your Dashboard?

> Once you have configured Railgun, you can test its operation using the **Test** button under the performance section of your Cloudflare account. This will indicate whether a request to your web server uses Railgun.

Reviewer: Is this still valid? There is no *Performance* section on the dash.

Author: I'm not sure because I don't have access to Railgun.

Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... connected to 192.0.43.10:80
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... Request sent to server
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... waiting for response
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... Response is ready
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... Received response
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... Forcing wantedDelta
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: Tx [ab18927f79... FnData DENone 328  ]
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... completed (0 body bytes in 0.001572 seconds/0)#012
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: ab18927f79... waiting for request
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: Transmit time: 88us
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: Tx [ab18927f79... FnPush]
Oct 27 23:36:06 www railgun[199.27.130.135:22114]: Transmit time: 48us
```

> **Railgun will produce 5xx messages when the rg-listener service is unable to reach the origin web server.** Checking that the route between the Railgun server and the web server is clear is essential before contacting support. The easiest way of checking that is just by performing a curl command from the Railgun server to the origin web server. If Railgun and the web server are both run on the same physical server, check that it allows loopback HTTP connections on ports 80 and 443 in its firewall settings. Please ensure the correct port is open and contact support if errors persist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Railgun will produce 5xx messages when the rg-listener service is unable to reach the origin web server.** Checking that the route between the Railgun server and the web server is clear is essential before contacting support. The easiest way of checking that is by performing a curl command from the Railgun server to the origin web server. If Railgun and the web server are both run on the same physical server, check that it allows loopback HTTP connections on ports 80 and 443 in its firewall settings. Please ensure the correct port is open and contact support if errors persist.
```

> **Railgun will produce 5xx messages when the rg-listener service is unable to reach the origin web server.** Checking that the route between the Railgun server and the web server is clear is essential before contacting support. The easiest way of checking that us just by performing a curl command from the Railgun server to the origin web server. If Railgun and the web server are both run on the same physical server, check that it allows loopback HTTP connections on ports 80 and 443 in its firewall settings. Please ensure the correct port is open and contact support if errors persist.

Reviewer: The easiest way of checking that us just by performing a curl command from the Railgun server to the origin web server.

Is there a typo here at "us"?

Author: Typo. Corrected

## Going live

> It is recommended that you consult the [Testing Railgun](/user-guide/installation#testing-railgun) section before enabling it for all visitors to your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you consult the [Testing Railgun](/user-guide/installation#testing-railgun) section before enabling Railgun for all visitors to your site.
```
